Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much for your participation. Thank you again.
Making time and getting participating is a lot of time and effort and organizing, and I'm very
thankful.
Thank you very much, everyone. Again, we are continuing to follow and come to the touch to the
teaching of our gracious, kindness, compassion teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, which is that
this one individual can summarize, condense in very practical way, to put in a simple way
so that we all can release somebody, some can carry our own path in practice as a day
to day, and also remind it to us. That's what His Holiness, the new day, in this one beautiful.
It's simple, it's short, but yet it really carries every essence. All baggage, our essence
baggage of the practice that you need is on our trail of joy and happiness to the path,
to the enlightenment. These ingredients, every key, borrowed our journey of the trail to the path
or to the path of enlightenment, it is excellent. It really carries, condense everything.
You read this, and everything it tells us, from the force of the Buddha's teaching, such as known
as Pundarajan teaching of the Buddha, now all the way to the Durya at your teaching,
it is a condensate, something, a nugget teaching that we can apply. We are trying to do that
teaching. Which is our practice? It's not something that new idea we are learning today,
or some completely kind of different thing. We are reactivating our practices, that's what we know
in a very beautiful way, so we can remember this. Remember this every day, or every time our
practices,
or along the path, we can remember. So this is what it is. So it's so special.
And therefore again, then the Buddha teaching, and old, and then being as a beautiful human being,
all those reasons bring up the joy and appreciation, and that is so important.
And as I said many times, it's not just important, but those are the foundational, very
foundational
of the Buddha teaching and our practices. We practice with joy and appreciation, and thankful,
very cordial. Really, that's it. Every reason we have, every reason, you can think, reflect it,
and collectively think, "Why I have to have you with joy and appreciation?"
Being a human being, and as well as all the other reasons that you need,
go through your check, not books, as Buddha taught, or teaching taught,
with those great marks and say, "Just check, really, we have so many reasons to be happy and joy,
even though we are in a samsara. Of course, we are in a samsara.
We have so many difficult challenges going on and on, but in the midst of those tribulations,
we have great hope and vision, light, that we can care of ourselves, sustain ourselves,
and move forward with vision and goal." How wonderful. That is known as courageous moving,
bodhisattvas, courageous for the enlightenment. Not that they did not say Buddha did not say
timidness for the enlightenment, courageous for the enlightenment.
We have to courage and enlightenment to discover our true nature.
Truth, it is very, very challenging sometimes, but it is rewarding forever.
It is not that going to ask fail or fall down. It is so special.
Therefore, we have all the tools, closely, very far away, that everything is in our sight,
in our way. How wonderful, how beautiful it is.
Really, therefore, with joy and appreciation and happiness.
And together, we did bodhisattva, extending that joy and appreciation,
with love and kindness and compassion for all living beings,
as we learn, as we receive the teachings, as we practice, extend.
Then, together with purity, realization, as very analytic, always highlighting.
Yes, that is not just very analytic, but that is our ultimate goal,
to become as everything enlightened.
When the bodhisattva comes to reach enlightenment, not just he reaches enlightenment himself,
but the entire universe is. For him, he is enlightened.
Not just he is sitting in the middle of the evidence, the frivolous state,
but on his weakness, on his realization.
The whole, everything, whole, total, everything is enlightened.
Home, soul, space, mind, everything, totally awake status.
That is known as totally enlightenment.
Partly the enlightenment, final goal of our journey of the enlightenment,
over the whole. And that, again, for the very end of practicing,
we begin right now, not waiting for a long time to become that.
It begins, that dawn of that purity begins right now.
Dawn, or light. It begins right now.
That also, how that happens, Buddha gives those teachings,
great masters give those teachings, but we have to activate it.
Enlightenment is more personal, in a way. We have to activate it.
That is our job, our responsibilities. We have to enlighten.
We are not going to be waiting to be enlightened by so much,
never going to happen, according to Buddhism.
You have to walk for your enlightenment.
And that begins right now, with those goals,
and then again we move to these teachings.
Teaching or activating those visual motivations, visual intentions,
and we move to this one.
And here, great master, his Holiness, Dhunurumudjib.
Dhunurumudjib said, whole, everlasting treasures,
whatever lasting treasure of practitioners that he highlighted,
that means we should always keep this poor, activated, that means.
It really means that we don't have, but we have to activate it.
We are not going to put our sight in the corner,
or somewhere in the wake, or in the distance, or in visible ways.
We have to activate it. What are those?
Again, Ami is here, he supports a lot.
I mean, last line of this quote, post-veg, devoting to the root teacher.
Root teacher.
And then love and affection for Samayas, brothers and sisters.
That's two.
And bodhicata of conviction towards all mother sent in the beings.
That is three, or three, wealth, three wealth, or wealth.
And the reduction of grasping due to the knowledge that all compounded things are impermanent.
This is the four everlasting treasures.
Every have these four, every keep that close to our heart,
we will be always good practitioners.
Not just good practitioners, we are very full of graceful practitioners,
advancing practitioners.
Our practice is not going to stay as dominion, what's called sleek mood.
It is fully working, and it is engaging, energetic, moving forward,
developing, being, purifying our obscurations, accumulating merit.
Really we are advancing to the part.
We are going to advance in the path of all those Buddha teachings said,
five path, ten movements, we are going to advance.
One after another, this is wealth, this wealth become more richer,
richer, stronger, and stronger than what in many times in many other teachings,
opening the trail of skies, the endless treasures that we are really going to open.
All the luxuries, bundles, spur of spirit, joy and peace and happiness,
as all opening with love and compassion, courage and commitment and confidence,
those are really just kind of rushing, just out, rushing, really welcome.
That is known as wealth.
This wealth, as I said the other day, I mean you all know,
this is not going to leave behind us when we leave this wall.
This wealth, we will trade with us, wherever we go.
As Buddha teaching the part of in the next life,
it will go on and on and expanding, more flourishing, flourishing, flourishing.
Really this will happen.
So those are like what poor wealth, as we were last time.
Last time, the first one we went through and what we said devoted to the teacher,
so we went on why we feel the devotion.
The qualification of something worthwhile to be devoted,
those we went through according to Buddha teaching,
explained and went through the Vinaya level,
we went to the Bodhisattva level or as teaching taught,
we went as very analytic.
Then we filled devotion.
We filled Namaskar, Peh, F-A-I-T-H, Peh and the devotion.
Devotion is so important in the teaching sense
that devotion is the really taught, it depends on our achievement also too.
But in the teaching sense, all those great master in life stories,
our realization is measured by the devotions
or the blessings of the Buddha Dharma Sangha
or is measured by our own duty of the devotions.
And we have small devotions, we have small blessings or small achievements.
We have quite medium devotions, we have medium blessings and medium realizations.
We have big devotions, then we have big realizations
and big achievements and big blessings.
So that's in all the teachings, if you read those many great books,
such as like words of my teacher and some other books,
really in the teaching sense,
that realization and achievement is dependent upon the duty of our devotions.
And our confidence, our commitment is not just that, it's commitment.
So therefore, devotion is so important.
But if we have all the others, these two portrayal of those three,
all target, devotion comes naturally.
You see value and importance and this goodness and benefit of the teachers
and the teachings and the lineage, devotion comes naturally.
And devotion is a combination of joy and appreciation and confidence
and freshness or appreciation, richness.
That is a combination of the devotions.
When you have these devotions, we begin to settle down to our practices.
We're not going to become the gift seal of the spirituals.
We're not going to become the wanderers and again mover, goer all the time,
goer, going, going, going.
We are settled at that moment.
We begin, from that on, we begin to grow, develop.
Generally in the Buddha teaching, we say things are named as goer.
Dua in it, very teaching.
Dua means something is moving all the time.
We move, we go.
Larger level, small level, we eat the level.
We're really moving, never going to stay.
We don't start doing our spiritual practices, like going all the time,
moving, like jumping as grasshoppers, kangaroos, kangaroos.
Jumping all the time, we're never going to settle.
Settle.
When we're not settled, we're not rooting.
And how we can grow, develop, jump all the time.
But when you have the devotion,
and the devotion is joy, appreciation, confidence, and,
and reach this feeling of the lineage and teaching,
then really we settle.
Settle.
That moment, it really started developing, growing, rooting,
plant is rooting.
Our spiritual bodhicitta, root, is now rooting,
not shaking the root all the time.
And trembling, moving all the time, changing root all the time.
Even this plant, the plant is water, the plant,
that we change all the time, both.
Moving all, it won't grow.
Grow.
In short time.
Time is not going to wet us.
Time is, this is perfect time.
We have to let it grow.
Let it develop.
Let is nourish, nourish.
Therefore, this, this movie is so important, important,
and to the root teachers.
And the root teachers generally, as you mentioned,
generally all the teachers, all those who have been kindness to us,
from the beginning time, when we were growing, baby times or young times,
until now, we should respect all the earners many times in the teaching.
But the teaching is all the earners, the earners of the knowledge,
that who help us, nourish and grow and develop something really to show the world,
something that made us more practical, more sensible,
with more common sense they give us.
All is respected.
We respect everyone.
And then by regularly, then, teaching that we are really now,
cultivating and developing, then we have to be to devotion.
So those are really about this first one.
And the second one is love and effort with a smile, brother and a sister.
This is, in a Tibetan, I don't have to read, but this is,
this is, brother and a sister, and she, in a Tibetan, she is brother and sisters,
so that we should always have love and affections
to all our regular brother and sisters,
and particularly his Samaya brothers.
What means Samayas? They are generated.
This Samaya means one who, we are all sharing the same practices,
same meditation, and that is really called bonded Samayas.
Generally, in the Buddha teaching, when we go for the teachings,
we are, for example, all of us, all of us have similar Samayas,
all of them particularly very unpractical.
We all have similar Samayas.
And those Samayas, according to Vedayana teaching,
we are the keeper of the three different vows, three different vows.
Those vows are known as like individually vows or pati moksha vows.
And the second is bodhisattva vows.
The third is Vedayana vows.
All the Vedayana practitioners are the keeper, holder of these three vows.
Three vows. And that in Vedayana, these vows are named as Samayas.
It is vows. It is known as Samaya, but it is conjunct, it is morality.
Morality, conjunct, ethics are named in the Vedayana Samayas.
So generally, what are those Samayas?
And of course, you all know. You all know.
But I highlighted that. I highlighted that.
What in the teaching said, what is pati moksha vow,
or sometimes translated pati moksha is a Sanskrit word,
or sorry, in the English translated, individually vows.
Vows are individuals. What actually that means?
Because in basic Buddhism school, basic Buddha teaching,
not so much emphasize of all the living beings.
They more emphasize to individuals of their realization,
and they are kind of free from suffering and cause of suffering.
They more emphasize individually.
So therefore, it is done individually,
liberation from the suffering and cause of suffering.
The vow that you take that.
And then, in the bodhicata vows, that changed.
That is then what we all know.
In bodhicata vow, in Mahayana teaching, Buddha highlighted,
not just you, but all the living beings.
All the living beings are more highlighted than one's own self, in a way.
But every time we say, I'm going to practice in order to benefit all living beings,
in order to benefit all living beings,
in order to make the enlightenment, I'm going to practice.
Not that this highlight, or I'm going to practice to get myself enlightenment.
I'll highlight others. It's called, that's called, Mahayana's.
All bodhicata vows.
In the Vediana teaching, the old, triggered with those vows,
post and second vows, everything is enlightenment status.
Poem, song, spirit, really keeping up that attitude or that realization.
Subject, object, all enlightenment status.
Enlightened, so that means how in the teaching said,
the all-related truth is totally, everything is enlightened.
Everything is enlightened.
And the absolute truth, everything is also empty.
Empty, so that means that all enlightenment is also within the emptiness.
The emptiness is within the enlightened status.
There are inseparable status.
Having that realization or keeping that attitude is Vediana vows.
So, in the Vediana practitioners, we all received empowerment.
We all received empowerment.
Then, perhaps we received roughly vows.
Or maybe we received the opasika vows.
Or maybe also many of you received full opasika, full ordained vows,
whether male or female.
In that is Vinaya or the Papi muta vows.
Above that, Mahayana, we received bodhicata vows.
And bodhicata vows.
Vows, again, received.
Wishing bodhicata and actualizing bodhicata vows.
And then above that, in Vediana teaching, we received Vediana vows.
So therefore, we all are mostly Vediana practitioners,
keep, not mostly, all Vediana practitioners, keep three vows.
Therefore, we are bonded with one or the same Samayas.
We are all with the same Samayas, same vows.
We are all the same medhala or the same platforms of the vows.
Vows.
And then we very unhighlight those such as vows,
all those vows such as the Papi muta vows and the bodhicata vows,
all that summarize into five dhyana Buddha vows that you all know,
I think many of you know, listed five dhyana Buddha vows.
And then plus, 14 dharma vows.
14 root dharma vows.
And as big ones, we join those prayers for those practices.
Many of times, we join.
And when we attend debuya such as a vulnerable debuya, we join those.
We join those prayers as a purification, if we did any mistakes within that range,
within that time, we are cleansing, we are purifying, we are acknowledging
in the presence of the Buddha dharma sangha, or, or,
muru deva rapini with the dharas.
Dharas.
And add don't, add big ones.
Those all.
So those are known as dhyana vows.
And again, maybe I listed this at five Buddha family vows.
I listed.
I mean, you all know, many of you know, we went through this, our solitary.
I remember we went, and you know, but again, those five dhyana Buddha,
of course, first you all know, what are those?
I don't know what I said.
Debi.
Tatagata families.
Rigid families.
Retna families.
Patma families.
And karna families.
Those are the five dhyana Buddha, or five Buddha families.
Those are five Buddha families.
Those are, yeah, they are five Buddha families.
They are not just individually family.
They are the ultimate state of the work of our natures, natures.
They are five Buddha families, states.
Tatagata Buddha families.
Vows of Tatagata Buddha families is work.
In the teachings said, the bodhicitta and morality, rafu, just are the vows of the Tatagata Buddha
families.
Vows.
Bodhicitta means work.
Wishing vows of the wishing bodhicitta, vows of the actualizing bodhicitta,
and morality divided into three.
As we went last time, and you all know many, many of you already know this.
Those are the morality that's stopping all the negativities,
or trying to stop all the negative activities.
Morality that's trying to gather all the virtuous activities,
and morality that's performing the beneficial activity for all the beings.
Those are the three moralities.
And plus, in the highlighted, rafu, vows of rafu.
This is what I call in the essay Tatagata Buddha family.
Vows of Tatagata Buddha family.
Because Tatagata Buddha family represent the body aspect of,
the body aspect of the Buddha, or the ground aspect of the enlightenment.
All the realization, achievements, is dependent upon this ground.
If our wishing bodhicitta is shaky, realization will be shaky.
If our actualizing bodhicitta is shaky, our realization is shaky.
Our morality what I listed as shaky, our realization result is shaky.
Our rafu, vows are shaky, realization is company.
Company, or the shaking.
Therefore, if these are our, if those are our family, F-I-R-M family,
family, realization, achievement, result is going to be family.
Therefore, they are known as vows of the Batagata family.
Batagata family, or the Vedaya Bodhi family.
Then, second is Vedaya families.
Vedaya family vows are holding the symbol of the bell,
of the ritual object bell and a dorti.
Dorti.
And seeing ourself as enlightenment beings, ourself as enlightened.
So that means, you hold in the ritual object of the bell and a dorti.
That symbol, that is symbol, but what is symbol like?
We see ourself as enlightened.
Our body is enlightened.
Our mind is enlightened.
Speech is enlightened.
So, mudra of the realization of the verse is keeping up.
That is, that is our, our mind is going to keep that.
We are going to keep with this, our realization by mind.
That realization, that attitude, therefore is called Vedaya families.
Strong and famous and confident on that under status.
All the skillful means and wisdom and the union of that fulfillment, keeping that.
It is vows of the Vedaya families.
Families.
And then, next one is the Redna families.
Redna is what Sanskrit word Redna is.
It is prosperity or richness, richness.
So here, in the teaching said, because of that vows, you give always poor kind of generosity
practices.
Generosity or giving and sharing the bundances.
And those are, first three are known as giving the abundance of materials,
giving the abundance of the word to wisdom, second is.
And third is giving the abundance of the protection, the security,
protection is security to the other beings, whatever we have capabilities.
The fourth one, those all gift are completely bounded within the loving kindness.
So always give the abundance of love, the effortions to the others.
Those are known as vows of the Redna families.
And then, next one of vows is. Vow it is Bhendma families.
Bhendma family is known as Lorosa families, but also is known as speech family.
Speech, S-P-E-E-C-H-I-B-L-E, speech family.
Speech family means giving the word to wisdom,
sharing the word to the wisdom and holding,
keeping the word to the wisdom by starting, contemplating and meditating in the practices.
That is vows. What are those in the teachings?
All the vowels, all the teachings, all the Avriyanas, inner yanas and the secret yanas, three yanas
.
What are all the Avriyanas? Those are vows of the Shravaka yana,
but the Buddha yana and the bodhisattva yanas.
So that means keeping the teachings of the three Avriyanas.
The teaching of the Shravaka yana, teaching of the Pathi Buddha yana,
keeping the teaching of the bodhisattva yanas.
Keeping the teaching means what I said.
Starting, contemplating, meditating, practicing. That is keeping.
And then sharing to the others every year, couple of letters and ready to share to the others.
Sharing. And then keeping vows of the inner, inner three yanas, three inner yanas.
Those are the three outer tantras, such as Kriya Tantra, Upatantra, Yoda Tantra teaching.
Keeping. What means keeper again?
Keeping means not just keeping the books. That is also Churya, of course, keeping the books.
Keeping the meaning of those teachings into the mind by studying, contemplating, practicing, med
itating.
And then expanding to the others every year, couple of letters, every year already, all those ready
, if needed.
Those are known as keeping the teaching of the inner, outer yana, inner yana.
And the Siva yanas. And keeping the, again, Siva yana is then Mahayoga, Anu yoga, Ati yoga, same
way.
Starting, contemplating, meditating and practices.
Those are known as keeper. And also again, it's only all the teaching to the others,
all sharing that to the others every year, couple of letters.
Those are known as keeper of the yanas, yanas.
So that is, and that is the vowels of the bhima-pemilis.
In the Bhima-pemilis, the teachings are generally, the teachings are the speech of the Buddhas.
Bhima-pemilis is speech, so therefore keeping that speech.
If you keep that to yourself, practicing, then we are the keeper of the vowels of the bhima-pemilis
.
The next one is then Kalma-pemilis.
Kalma is Sanskrit word which means action or activity.
One is activity, related with all the Vedayana teachings that you are keeping.
So that means, that means you keep all the vowels, the post-post-post-post vowels,
the Buddha-pemilis, the Vedaya-pemilis, the Vedana-pemilis, the Bhima-pemilis, those vowels,
keep those vowels above that, keeping the ritual practices, the tiny practices, the meditations,
that are as you said going to do, you promised, you promised to be in front of the teacher,
or in front of the sangha, or in front of the, visualize the Buddha's bodhisattva,
you mentally made those, every mentally made, not just you, we mentally made those commitments.
Keeping up those vowels, vowels and practices.
And together we perform with any action, activity, such as related with or within the frame of core
activities,
such as pacifying, increasing, overpowering and subjugating or removing those.
Any activities we can do, according our capabilities, but keep the practice and meditation,
and all the, keeping the vowels exactly as, as keeping the promise, as we promised.
Those are vowels of God of Heaven.
So that is it, so then those, when we take the vowels, in our mind, usually we take all these vow
els,
we join, or I keep them with, but the Mukti vowels, I keep my bodhisattva vowels,
I keep the bodhisattva vowels, we did that vowels, that is the Zeno name, we keep this vowels.
So now we're here, in his old dungeon we say, all those who share the same samaya,
we are in boundary with the same samaya, we should have affection to death,
affection and love to all the various brothers and sisters.
Generally in the Buddha teaching, again in Vaidyana teaching, or Nuhangara, in Nurbata teaching,
generally there is four groups of the brothers and sisters, four groups of brothers and sisters.
Look, distant brother and, first group is distant brother and sisters.
Second group is inner brother and sisters.
And then third is, is closest, close means close, close to one's own, closest brother and sisters.
And the intimacy brothers and sisters, those are four groups of the brothers and sisters.
And generally to all of them we should have love and affection.
The first is distant brother is what? All the living beings are known as distant brothers and
sisters.
All the living beings.
Second is, inner brother, all who follow the Buddha teaching, Buddhist practitioners,
who follow in that teaching of the gracious teacher, Buddha Kshaktamani.
They are inner brothers and sisters.
Then, such as the close brothers and sisters, who are practitioners of all such as Vaidyana
practitioners.
All are close brothers and sisters.
And then intimacy brother and sister is one who share the same Samaya, same teacher, same teachings
.
And practice the same thing. Those are known as intimacy, Vaidyana, brothers and sisters.
They are not just regular brothers and sisters, Vaidyana brothers and sisters.
What that means?
It means this bond of this connection is not just a short time.
According to Vaidyana teaching, from now on, until we reach enlightenment, we will be together.
Together, we will continue to go together and carry the similar light, carry the similar goal,
similar destination.
Therefore, we need affections and love and affections.
And somehow, we disregard that.
And then, when we carry it, for example, quote in dong pho, second dong pho, I think, or third dong
pho, is, or third dong pho, I think, third dong pho is,
and criticize one's own various brothers and sisters.
Third dong pho is making big mistakes.
By knowing those things, what is, then we have to put it away, should put it away.
And clearly, that is really the goal.
So therefore, this is affections and love.
And to all these various brothers and sisters, is second trigger of, second trigger or second
richness, wealth of the practitioners.
So that means the pure perceptions.
Those are the teachings, pure perception, love, and respect, and the affections of all various
brothers and sisters.
Even though we see some differences, different kind of things in each other, but forgive each other
, excuse each other.
And again, that is the Buddha teaching, such as patient practices, patient practices, and forgive,
excuse each other,
forgive each other, cleanse and purification, not stay in this kind of shadow of that stance and
clear way and move forward.
That is known as being practitioners.
We are making more refining of our wealth of our traders.
So that is really my talk for today, and I strongly thank you very much again for your
participation.
Thank you, everyone. Thank you.
Thank you very much, everyone.
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
And now we do, again, this practice.
So I complete the talk, the teaching completely now.
And so we do short dedication prayers.
And then after that, then we do, what's called this, then we do the healing practices.
And then quite a few individuals ask to pray, do pray.
And then we do the pray to all those individuals who ask to do pray.
And then as well as we dedicate the merit for all living beings, including those who ask to do pray
.
So those are our kind of program on the schedule, so what we will do.
But now I completed that today's my brief talk, and we did short dedication prayers.
And we did, if you have this opening prayer, do it.
And we do these prayers in first words, first words.
By this matter, may all obtain the omissions made to be in an unknown courtroom, from the storm
phase of birth, old days, sickness, and death, from the ocean of samsara, and free all beings.
Thank you very much, again, for participation.
And then tomorrow, again, we continue to go on this topic at 10 o'clock in the morning.